# Public Documentation

## Krylov subspaces

The `KrylovSubspace` type collects information on the [Krylov subspace](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Krylov_subspace) generated over the course of an iterative Krylov solver.

Recall that the Krylov subspace of order `r` given a starting vector `b` and a linear operator `A` is spanned by the vectors `[b, A*b, A^2*b,... A^(r-1)*b]`. Many modern iterative solvers work on Krylov spaces which expand until they span enough of the range of `A` for the solution vector to converge. Most practical algorithms, however, will truncate the order of the Krylov subspace to save memory and control the accumulation of roundoff errors. Additionally, they do not work directly with the raw iterates `A^n*b`, but will orthogonalize subsequent vectors as they are computed so as to improve numerical stability. `KrylovSubspace`s provide a natural framework to express operations such as a (possibly non-orthonormalized) basis for the Krylov subspace, retrieving the next vector in the subspace, and orthogonalizing an arbitrary vector against (part or all of) the subspace.

The implementation of `KrylovSubspace` in this package differs from standard textbook presentations of iterative solvers. First, the `KrylovSubspace` type shows clearly the relationship between the linear operator `A` and the sequence of basis vectors for the Krylov subspace that is generated by each new iteration. Second, the grouping together of basis vectors also makes the orthogonalization steps in each iteration routine clearer. Third, unlike in other languages, the powerful type system of Julia allows for a simplified notation for iterative algorithms without compromising on performance, and enhances code reuse across multiple solvers.

### Constructors

A `KrylovSubspace` can be initialized by three constructors, depending on the type of the linear operator:


```
KrylovSubspace{T}(A::AbstractMatrix{T}, [order::Int, v::Vector{Vector{T}}])

KrylovSubspace{T}(A::KrylovSubspace{T}, [order::Int, v::Vector{Vector{T}}])

KrylovSubspace(A, n::Int, [order::Int, v::Vector{Vector{T}}])
```


- `A`: The linear operator associated with the `KrylovSubspace`.
- `order`: the order of the `KrylovSubspace`, i.e. the maximal number of Krylov vectors to remember.
- `n`: the dimensionality of the underlying vector space `T^n`.
- `v`: the iterable collection of Krylov vectors (of maximal length `order`).

    The dimensionality of the underlying vector space is automatically inferred where possible, i.e. when the linear operator is an `AbstractMatrix` or `KrylovSubspace`. (Note: the second constructor destroys the old `KrylovSubspace`.)

### Orthogonalization

Orthogonalizing the basis vectors for a `KrylovSubspace` is crucial for numerical stability, and is a core low-level operation for many iterative solvers.

```
orthogonalize{T}(v::Vector{T}, K::KrylovSubspace{T}, [p::Int]; [method::Symbol], [normalize::Bool])

```

- `v`: The vector to orthogonalize
- `K`: The `KrylovSubspace` to orthogonalize against
- `p`: The number of Krylov vectors to orthogonalize against (the default is all available)
- `method`: Orthogonalization method. Currently supported methods are:
    - `:GramSchmidt`. Not recommended, as it is numerically unstable.
    - `:ModifiedGramSchmidt`. (default)
    - `:Householder`.
